+++
title = "Identity"
description = "Gender and plurality: my experience and coming out"
date = 2022-10-17
+++

> **Disclaimer:** this article is related to real life and might expose topics you might not agree with, as I can not promise this will not be the norm on my blog as this is a personal site, If you are only interested in tech/computer stuff you can safely skip it. / Everyone experiences identity or gender differently, you might also be transgender or plural and have a completely different point of view, please respect my opinions.

Talking about this topic might be seen as taboo for most of the society, but honestly as it does not hurt anyone I will talk openly about it to remove that stigma.

Identity, for some of us, is complex. For normal people, "you" are just you, and most likely you might also be happy with your gender.

In the last years, it became more "acceptable" to rethink your identity, specifically gender identity, in most LGBTQIA+ accepting countries you can change your legal name and gender to match your desired one.

This was the case for me, as I was not happy with my assigned gender, at some day in the year 2015, I decided that I was a female.

Following up, and having different thoughts about gender-normative, I came out as [gender non-binary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-binary_gender) in 2021.

Lately, I joined and been more active in the fediverse community (I plan to make a tutorial post about this, but you can safely think as an alternative "Twitter", if you want)

I found out that people can have multiple identities!

It is called Plurality or, as I have taken the freedom to call it, plural identity.

## What is plurality?

> Plurality simply means people who are Many.
> It is an umbrella term that people may use freely, to self identify with.
> It includes all sorts of people & experiences.
> Including but in no way limited to how psychology explains multiplicity.
> Nor does it indicate how someone became Many or if they are disordered or disabled in any way.
> Plural is an identity, a community, an umbrella, a label.

## Coming out 

After processing all this information, I realized my identity is divided into three alters.

One is the adult me, the one that brings the food to the table, the one that works to keep the body healthy, and frankly, the one "I am" most of the time.
Their name is Lucie (in short, Luc), author of most blog articles, including this one.

Alma, is basically my inner child, the eternal curious and the person that has the most joy from nostalgia when my meat body used to be as their age.

Lastly we have Chelsea: she is the representation of my teenager self, loves heavy metal and emo music, she is the only one in the system that prefers female pronouns (but is totally fine with they/them).


## Conclusion

Writing this is totally liberating, and I am delighted that you read it!

If you are interested in reading more about this topic I highly recommend this article: [What is like to be me](https://xeiaso.net/blog/what-its-like-to-be-me-2018-06-14), and these awesome websites that are full of resources: [More than one](https://morethanone.info), [Plurality playbook](https://www.pluralpride.com/playbook), [Power to the plurals](https://powertotheplurals.com/).

Take care.

